---
title: A privacy policy attestation for DoT and DoH servers
abbrev: DNS-privacy
docname: draft-richardson-dprive-privacy-attestation-00

# stand_alone: true

ipr: trust200902
area: Internet
wg: anima Working Group
kw: Internet-Draft
cat: std
stand_alone: true

coding: us-ascii
pi:    # can use array (if all yes) or hash here
  toc: yes
  sortrefs:   # defaults to yes
  symrefs: yes

author:


- ins: M. Richardson
  name: Michael Richardson
  org: Sandelman Software Works
  email: mcr+ietf@sandelman.ca

- ins: T. Reddy
  name: Tirumaleswar Reddy
  org: McAfee, Inc
  email: kondtir@gmail.com

- ins: D. Wing
  name: Dan Wing
  org: Citrix Systems, Inc.
  email: dwing-ietf@fuggles.com
  
normative:
  BCP14: RFC8174

informative:
  CDN:
    target: "https://conferences.sigcomm.org/sigcomm/2015/pdf/papers/p167.pdf"
    title: "End-User Mapping: Next Generation Request Routing for Content Delivery"
    year: 2015

--- abstract

This document describes a process by which a DNS over TLS
or DNS over HTTPS may provide an attestation as to their privacy
policy to a client machine.  As the use of mechanisms other than
DNS on port-53 (Do53), many different suppliers of these alternate
mechanism will increase: client systems will need to be able to
make informed choices, and this mechanism provides for one
source of information.

--- middle

# Introduction

Traditionally a caching DNS server has been provided by local
networks.  This provides benefits such as low latency to reach that
DNS server (owing to its network proximity to the endpoint).
However, if an endpoint is configured to use Internet-hosted or
public DNS-over-(D)TLS {{!RFC7858}} {{!RFC8094}} or DNS-over-HTTPS
{{!RFC8484}} servers, any available local DNS server cannot serve DNS
requests from local endpoints.  If public DNS servers are used
instead of using local DNS servers, some operational problems can
occur such as those listed below:

*  "Split DNS" {{!RFC2775}} to use the special internal-only domain
    names (e.g., "internal.example.com") in enterprise networks will
    not work, and ".local" and "home.arpa" names cannot be locally
    resolved in home networks.

*  Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) that map traffic based on DNS may
   lose the ability to direct end-user traffic to a nearby service-
   specific cluster in cases where a DNS service is being used that
   is not affiliated with the local network and which does not send
   "EDNS Client Subnet" (ECS) information {{!RFC7871}} to the CDN's DNS
   authorities {{CDN}}.

If public DNS servers are used instead of using local DNS servers,
the following discusses the impact on network-based security:

*  Various network security services are provided by Enterprise
      networks to protect endpoints (e.g,. Hosts, IoT devices).
      {{!I-D.camwinget-tls-use-cases}} discusses some of the network-based
      security service use cases.  These network security services act
      on DNS requests originating from endpoints.

*  However, if an endpoint is configured to use public DNS-
      over-(D)TLS or DNS-over-HTTPS servers, network security services
      cannot act efficiently on DNS requests from these endpoints.

*  In order to act on DNS requests from endpoints, network security
      services can block DNS-over-(D)TLS traffic by dropping outgoing
      packets to destination port 853.  Identifying DNS-over-HTTPS
      traffic is far more challenging than DNS-over-(D)TLS traffic.
      Network security services may try to identify the domains offering
      DNS-over-HTTPS servers, and DNS-over-HTTPS traffic can be blocked
      by dropping outgoing packets to these domains.  If an endpoint has
      enabled strict privacy profile (Section 5 of [RFC8310]), and the
      network security service blocks the traffic to the public DNS
      server, the DNS service won't be available to the endpoint and
      ultimately the endpoint cannot access Internet-reachable services.

*  If an endpoint has enabled opportunistic privacy profile
   (Section 5 of {{!RFC8310}}), and the network security service blocks
   traffic to the public DNS server, the endpoint will either
   fallback to an encrypted connection without authenticating the DNS
   server provided by the local network or fallback to clear text
   DNS, and cannot exchange encrypted DNS messages.

# Terminology

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
"OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
{{BCP14}} when, and
only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

# Privacy Considerations

YYY

# Security Considerations

ZZZ

# IANA Considerations

# Acknowledgements

Hello.

# Changelog


--- back

